src/1.9.1/chapter_1.9.1.md, before:

#   Chapter 1.9 - Alerting

Manual Install of elastalert on `Kali Linux machine`
====

>In the labs we'll be skipping these steps, and instead install ElastALert as a docker container on your `Kali Linux machine`, where also you ELK stack is running in docker.

```code
apt install python3-pip  
python3 -m pip install pip --upgrade && python3 -m pip install wheel  
sudo -H pip3 install --ignore-installed PyYAML  
python3 -m pip install elastalert==0.2.1  
```

We're going to create the directories for the elastalert rules and configuration file:

```code
mkdir /opt/elastalert  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/rules  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/log  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/config    
nano /opt/elastalert/config/config.yaml    
```

And then edit the config.yaml:

```yml
rules_folder: rules
run_every:
    seconds: 30
buffer_time:
    seconds: 45
es_host: es01
es_port: 9200
alert_time_limit:
    days: 1
writeback_index: elastalert_status
alert_text: "Index: {0} \nEvent_Timestamp: {1} \nBeat_Name: {2} \nUser_Name: {3} \nHost_Name: {4} \nLog_Name: {5} \nOriginal_Message: \n\n{6}"
alert_text_type: alert_text_only
alert_text_args: ["_index","@timestamp","beat.name","user_name","host_name","log_name","z_original_message"]
```

then let's create the necessary indexes in our elastic stack

```python 
python3 -m elastalert.create_index --index elastalert_status --config /opt/elastalert/config/config.yaml
```



Create an ElastAlert rule
====

The following instruction will load the field-mappings (`winlogbeat.yml`) then use the sigma rule (`alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml`) to generate an ElastAlert rule (`alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml`) in the /opt/threathunt/elastalert/rules/ directory which is mapped to the docker instance of ElastAlert. 

See image below which show parts of the docker-compose file that runs ElastALert in a cointainer:

![Screenshot command](./assets/02-elastalert_dockervolume.jpg)

```code
sigmac --target elastalert --config /opt/sigma/tools/config/winlogbeat.yml --output /opt/threathunt/elastalert/rules/alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml /opt/threathunt/sigma_rules/win_crimsoncore_net.yaml
```

```code
python3 -m elastalert.elastalert --config /opt/elastalert/config.yaml  --verbose --start $(date +"%Y-%m-%d")
```

go to your kibana and make sure you create elast-alert indexes by going to Management -> Index Patterns -> "Create index pattern" and enter the index-name "elastalert-*"

Elast-Alert docs
https://elastalert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

This is the result ElastAlert rule:

```yml
#alert:
#- debug
description: Detects recon using net.exe commands
filter:
- query:
    query_string:
      query: (winlog.channel:"Microsoft\-Windows\-Sysmon\/Operational" AND winlog.event_id:"1"
        AND winlog.event_data.OriginalFileName:("*net1.exe" "*net.exe"))
index: logstash-*
name: Net-commands_0
priority: 2
realert:
  minutes: 0
type: any

alert_text: "{2} Endpoint: {0} CommandLine: {1} Link: {3}"
alert_text_type: alert_text_only
alert_text_args:
- host.name
- winlog.event_data.CommandLine
- "@timestamp"
- kibana_link

#<a href='{3}'>Kibana link</a>

alert:
- "slack"
slack:
slack_webhook_url: "https://hooks.slack.com/services/pasteyourhookhere"
```

Commit message:

docker restart comment on elastalert

src/1.9.1/chapter_1.9.1.md, after:

#   Chapter 1.9 - Alerting

Manual Install of elastalert on `Kali Linux machine`
====

>In the labs we'll be skipping these steps, and instead install ElastALert as a docker container on your `Kali Linux machine`, where also you ELK stack is running in docker.

***IMPORTANT: It might be necessary to restart your elastalert docker container so it can create its indexes in ELASTICSEARCH. When deploying the container, if ELASTIC SEARH hasn't fully started, this index creation will fail.***

```code
apt install python3-pip  
python3 -m pip install pip --upgrade && python3 -m pip install wheel  
sudo -H pip3 install --ignore-installed PyYAML  
python3 -m pip install elastalert==0.2.1  
```

We're going to create the directories for the elastalert rules and configuration file:

```code
mkdir /opt/elastalert  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/rules  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/log  
mkdir /opt/elastalert/config    
nano /opt/elastalert/config/config.yaml    
```

And then edit the config.yaml:

```yml
rules_folder: rules
run_every:
    seconds: 30
buffer_time:
    seconds: 45
es_host: es01
es_port: 9200
alert_time_limit:
    days: 1
writeback_index: elastalert_status
alert_text: "Index: {0} \nEvent_Timestamp: {1} \nBeat_Name: {2} \nUser_Name: {3} \nHost_Name: {4} \nLog_Name: {5} \nOriginal_Message: \n\n{6}"
alert_text_type: alert_text_only
alert_text_args: ["_index","@timestamp","beat.name","user_name","host_name","log_name","z_original_message"]
```

then let's create the necessary indexes in our elastic stack

```python 
python3 -m elastalert.create_index --index elastalert_status --config /opt/elastalert/config/config.yaml
```



Create an ElastAlert rule
====

The following instruction will load the field-mappings (`winlogbeat.yml`) then use the sigma rule (`alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml`) to generate an ElastAlert rule (`alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml`) in the /opt/threathunt/elastalert/rules/ directory which is mapped to the docker instance of ElastAlert. 

See image below which show parts of the docker-compose file that runs ElastALert in a cointainer:

![Screenshot command](./assets/02-elastalert_dockervolume.jpg)

```code
sigmac --target elastalert --config /opt/sigma/tools/config/winlogbeat.yml --output /opt/threathunt/elastalert/rules/alert_win_crimsoncore_net.yaml /opt/threathunt/sigma_rules/win_crimsoncore_net.yaml
```

```code
python3 -m elastalert.elastalert --config /opt/elastalert/config.yaml  --verbose --start $(date +"%Y-%m-%d")
```

go to your kibana and make sure you create elast-alert indexes by going to Management -> Index Patterns -> "Create index pattern" and enter the index-name "elastalert-*"

Elast-Alert docs
https://elastalert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

This is the result ElastAlert rule:

```yml
#alert:
#- debug
description: Detects recon using net.exe commands
filter:
- query:
    query_string:
      query: (winlog.channel:"Microsoft\-Windows\-Sysmon\/Operational" AND winlog.event_id:"1"
        AND winlog.event_data.OriginalFileName:("*net1.exe" "*net.exe"))
index: logstash-*
name: Net-commands_0
priority: 2
realert:
  minutes: 0
type: any

alert_text: "{2} Endpoint: {0} CommandLine: {1} Link: {3}"
alert_text_type: alert_text_only
alert_text_args:
- host.name
- winlog.event_data.CommandLine
- "@timestamp"
- kibana_link

#<a href='{3}'>Kibana link</a>

alert:
- "slack"
slack:
slack_webhook_url: "https://hooks.slack.com/services/pasteyourhookhere"
```
